# Advent-of-Code
Advent of Code 2021
* Day01.java 
  * Part 01 Solution: First, I took the data set provided and converted it into an ArrayList. The first method in my code is creating an ArrayList of integers. After I had created the ArrayList I made a method called increase that compares the previous element to the current element to determine if the current element is greater. If the currect element is greater, then a variable called count is increased. The method will return count, the number of increases in the data set. 
  * Part 02 Solution: For the second part of this problem, I approched it similarly to my previous method for part one. I used another for loop that went over the list except this time I started at the second element in the thrid element of the list. Everytime the loop runs I am initializing two sum variables, the previous sum and the current sum, and then comparing them and increasing if the current sum is greater. 
* Day06Part1.java
  *  The first part of this problem that I did was creating an ArrayList with the data set that I was given. I first created an array with my data and then converted the array to an ArrayList using a method that I wrote. After all my data was in an ArrayList, I started to work on the promt given. To find the amount of fish after 80 days I used nested for loops. The first for loop is going to run for the amount of days that the method is sent. The second for loop is going to go through each element in ArrayList of data and increas/reset the lantern fish timer and add more fish.
* Day07Part1.java
  *   This problem was much more difficult to figure out what is was asking, so the first thing I did was write out on paper what the goal of the program was and what methods I needed to create in order to accomplish the goal. I started by first creating some simple methods to find the max and the min value in the data set. Next, I created a method that would create a new array to store the difference of each value between min and max. I created another method called difference to find the difference and they stored it into that new array. Once the new with the differences was creates, I then found the minimum of that array and returned that value to complete the problem.
* Day09.java
   *    For this problem, I worked a lot with 2D arrays to find the low points in the data set. For the corners of the 2D array, I only needed to check 2 values but for the many values I had to check the values on all 4 sides. Because of this, I created if statements that check if the value is a corner, edge, or middle value. This made sure that I would not get an index out of bound errors. For this problem I also created many small methods so that my code was easier to debug. 
* Day13.java
   *    Something that I learned while doing this problem was that it is very important to create small methods so that it is easier to debug the code. I ended up create different methods based on if the fold was horizontal or if the fold was vertical. Because I created small methods, they were much easier to debug and I could get parts of the code working in small increments. 
* Day02.java
   *    While doing this problem, I learned that it is helpful to generalize code because if you need to add onto the code it is much easier. Because I made my code with variables instead of assigning values, I was able to use my methods from part 1 for part 2 and I only needed to add one method. Generalizing code also is helpful if you need to edit or debug any code that you previously wrote. 
* Day05.java
   *    For this problem, I created multiple objects in order to keep tract of all the points. The hydropoints object has 2 x values and 2 y values and in the main I created an array list of hydropoints. The hardest part of this was creating the diagonal method. For the diagonal I had to figure out if the slope was positive or negative and then increase the row/column correctly.
* Day03.java (extra credit)
   *    While I did struggle with this problem for a bit, I learned that an easy method to debug code is to print out variables in defferent places throughout a method so that you can see exactly what is happening to the variable. At the end of my gamma method I printed out the gamma binary sequence and then calculated the number by hand to ensure that my binary method was getting the correct value. This really helped me when debugging my code and is something that I will do when coding in the future. 
* 2015Day01.java (extra credit)
   *    For this problem, I was able to use a method that I had written for another problem and slightly modify it, and from that I learned that general methods from other problems can be easily modified to fit the requirments for another problem. My floor method for this problem is very simple, it consists of a for loop that goes over each character of the string of data and adds or subtracts based on the character. 
